---
Title: Wallet API Interface
Description: This VIP aims to provide a better user experience to end users by defining a standard interface for vechain based wallets
Author: Darren Kelly, darren.kelly@vechain.rog
Discussions: #TODO
Category: Application
Status: Draft
CreatedAt: 2024-01-18
---

## Overview

Current wallets in the vechain ecosystem have limited functionality, providing only the ability to sign certificates and send transactions. This VIP aims to enhance user experience by defining a standardized interface for vechain-based wallets. The proposed interface draws inspiration from the MetaMask JSON-RPC API Reference, offering a more comprehensive set of interactions.

## Motivation

Existing vechain wallets lack versatility, offering minimal functionalities such as signing certificates and sending transactions. The motivation behind this VIP is to introduce a standardized wallet interface that goes beyond these basic operations. By providing a more consistent and enriched user experience, the goal is to address the limitations of current wallets and cater to user needs more comprehensively. Additionally, the proposed interface will handle crucial events like 'account changes' and 'account disconnected' contributing to a more robust wallet ecosystem.

## Rationale

To ensure clarity and minimize confusion within the vechain community, this VIP adopts methods and naming conventions from the MetaMask API reference. By aligning with established practices, such as using the same names for methods like eth_requestAccounts, the proposal aims to foster familiarity and coherence. This rationale enhances community understanding, reduces ambiguity, and promotes a seamless transition for users and developers alike.

## Specification

### RPC-Based Calls

This specification outlines a set of RPC-based calls for the VeChain wallet interface. All interactions with the wallet are facilitated through Remote Procedure Calls (RPC), adhering to a standardized format.

#### RequestArguments Interface

```typescript
interface RequestArguments {
  method: string;
  params?: unknown[] | object;
}
```

The RequestArguments interface defines the structure for RPC calls, encompassing a method identifier and optional parameters. Developers are required to adhere to this interface when formulating requests to the VeChain wallet.

#### Example RPC Call Syntax

```typescript
window.vechain.request(args: RequestArguments): Promise<unknown>;
```

All wallet interactions are initiated using the window.vechain.request function, which is an asynchronous call returning a Promise. This function takes a single argument – an instance of RequestArguments – specifying the method to be executed and any accompanying parameters.

#### Example RPC Call

- Example RPC call to connect and request vechain accounts

```typescript
await window.vechain.request({
  method: "eth_requestAccounts",
  params: [],
});
```

- Example RPC call to remove permissions and disconnect account

```typescript
await window.vechain?.request({
  method: "wallet_revokePermissions",
  params: [
    {
      eth_accounts: {},
    },
  ],
});
```

Developers can utilize this RPC-based approach to seamlessly communicate with the VeChain wallet, promoting interoperability and a standardized user experience across various applications and platforms.

By adopting RPC calls and adhering to the defined interface, developers can ensure consistency and compatibility, contributing to a more unified and efficient VeChain wallet ecosystem.

---

### Events Overview

In addition to RPC-based calls, the VeChain wallet interface supports event handling to provide real-time updates on specific occurrences.

### Example Event Usage

```typescript
function handleEventData(data) {
  // Handle new data
}

window.vechain.on("eventName", handleEventData);

window.vechain.removeListener("eventName", handleEventData);
```

#### Example Event

Developers can subscribe to the accountsChanged event using the following syntax:

```typescript
const subscription = window.vechain.on("accountsChanged", console.log);
```

---

#### RPC Methods

- **thor_sendTransaction**

  Parameters: [TransactionMessage, TransactionOptions, GenesisId]

  - TransactionMessage - An array of clauses:
    - `to` - The recipient of the VET/ contract call
    - `data` - The contract method to call, or contract bytecode to deploy
    - `value` - The amount of VET to send
    - `comment` - (Optional) - A comment from the DApp to the user, describing the clause
    - `abi` - (Optional) - To decode the data and display the inputs to the user
  - TransactionOptions - Optional object:
    - `signer` - The account to perform the transaction with
    - `dependsOn` - The transaction to depend on
    - `delegator`:
      - `url`: The delegation URL.
      - `signer`: TODO
    - `gas` - The maximum gas to use for the transaction
    - `comment` - A comment from the DApp to the user, describing the transaction
  - GenesisId

- **thor_signCertificate** - Please refer to [VIP 192](./VIP-192.md)

  Parameters: [CertificateMessage, CertificateOptions, GenesisId]

  - CertificateMessage:
    - `purpose` - 'identification' OR 'agreement'
    - `payload`:
      - `type`: 'text'
      - `content`: A string
  - CertificateOptions - Optional object:
    - `signer` - The account to sign the certificate with
  - GenesisId

- **personal_sign** - Refer to [VIP 190](./VIP-190.md)

  Parameters: [String]

#### Event Subscription

## Test Cases

<!--
  This section is optional for non-Core VIPs.

  The Test Cases section should include expected input/output pairs, but may include a succinct set of executable tests. It should not include project build files. No new requirements may be be introduced here (meaning an implementation following only the Specification section should pass all tests here.)

  If the test suite is too large to reasonably be included inline, then consider adding it as one or more files in `../assets/vip-####/`. External links will not be allowed

  TODO: Remove this comment before submitting
-->

## Reference Implementation

<!--
  This section is optional.

  The Reference Implementation section should include a minimal implementation that assists in understanding or implementing this specification. It should not include project build files. The reference implementation is not a replacement for the Specification section, and the proposal should still be understandable without it.

  If the reference implementation is too large to reasonably be included inline, then consider adding it as one or more files in `../assets/vip-####/`. External links will not be allowed.

  TODO: Remove this comment before submitting
-->

## Security Considerations

<!--
  All VIPs must contain a section that discusses the security implications/considerations relevant to the proposed change. Include information that might be important for security discussions, surfaces risks and can be used throughout the life cycle of the proposal. For example, include security-relevant design decisions, concerns, important discussions, implementation-specific guidance and pitfalls, an outline of threats and risks and how they are being addressed. VIP submissions missing the "Security Considerations" section will be rejected. An VIP cannot proceed to status "Final" without a Security Considerations discussion deemed sufficient by the reviewers.

  The current placeholder is acceptable for a draft.

  TODO: Remove this comment before submitting
-->

Copyright and related rights waived via [CC0](./LICENSE.md).
